.TH WIKI 1
.SH NAME
    wiki - Wikipedia article viewer for ZenithOS

.SH SYNOPSIS
    wiki <title>
    wiki -f <title>
    wiki -s <query>

.SH DESCRIPTION
    wiki fetches and displays Wikipedia articles in the terminal.
    It connects to en.wikipedia.org over HTTPS (TLS 1.2) and
    uses the Wikipedia REST and Action APIs to retrieve article
    content as plain text.

    Articles are displayed in a fullscreen interactive pager with
    color-coded headings and word-wrapped text. Multi-word titles
    are accepted as separate arguments and joined automatically.

.SH OPTIONS
.B -f
    Full article mode. Display the complete article text instead
    of just the summary. Section headings are color-coded.

.B -s
    Search mode. Search Wikipedia for articles matching the
    query and display a numbered list of up to 10 results.
    Press a number key to view that article's summary.

.SH EXAMPLES
    wiki Linux
        Show a summary of the Linux article.

    wiki -f C programming language
        Show the full text of the C programming language article.

    wiki -s operating system
        Search for articles related to "operating system".

.SH TLS SUPPORT
    Connections use BearSSL for TLS 1.2. Server certificates
    are validated against the system CA bundle at
    0:/etc/ca-certificates.crt.

.SH KEYBOARD

.SS Article pager
    j / Down        Scroll down one line
    k / Up          Scroll up one line
    Space / PgDn    Scroll down one page
    b / PgUp        Scroll up one page
    g / Home        Jump to top
    G / End         Jump to bottom
    q               Quit pager

.SS Search results
    1-9, 0          View article (0 = result 10)
    q               Quit search

.SS General
    Ctrl+Q          Abort during network request

.SH SEE ALSO
    fetch(1), ping(1), nslookup(1), shell(1)
